# Backwards compatibility

* The `delete_invalid` plugin was removed, because it was unstable since next
  form submission would cause errors of trying to delete the cached file which
  was already deleted.

* The callback code has been changed, which means that any external ORM plugins
  should be updated (`sequel` and `activerecord` plugins which ship with
  Shrine have been updated and continue to work).

* The `:max_size` option was removed from `direct_upload` plugin. It was
  redundant since it can still be bypassed by uploading the file without the
  plugin, the proper solution is limiting the request body size in
  (nginx/apache), or using the `hooks` plugin to raise an error when file is
  too big. For presigned uploads you should limit the filesize by passing a
  block to `:presign`.

* The `direct_upload` doesn't detect the `content_type` query parameter anymore
  with presigned uploads, instead it should be implemented directly by passing
  a block to `:presign`.

* The `Shrine.delete` method has been removed, as it was redundant, instead
  `Shrine#delete` should always be used.

* The `Shrine.io!` method has been removed, as it was meant for internal use
  only.

* Assigning cached files with parsed JSON hashes is now extracted into a
  `parsed_json` plugin, so now if your web framework parses JSON query
  parameters you should load this plugin.

# New plugins

* A `rack_file` plugin has been added, which gives models the ability to accept
  Rack's uploaded file hashes (useful in non-Rails web frameworks):

```rb
class MyUploader < Shrine
  plugin :rack_file
end

class User
  include MyUploader[:resume]
end

rack_file # a Rack file received with the request
# {
#   :tempfile => #<File:/var/folders/3n/3asd/-Tmp-/RackMultipart201-1476-nfw2-0>,
#   :filename => "resume.pdf",
#   :type => "application/pdf",
# }

user = User.new
user.resume = rack_file

user.resume.original_filename #=> "resume.pdf"
user.resume.mime_type         #=> "application/pdf"
```

* A `module_include` plugin has been which adds the ability to extend core
  classes for the current uploader or all uploaders.

```rb
class MyUploader < Shrine
  plugin :module_include

  file_methods do
    def base64
      Base64.encode64(read)
    end
  end
end

uploaded_file = MyUploader.new(:storage).upload(some_file)
uploaded_file.base64 #=> "sd93K4230sDfsk0POd9..."
```

* A `default_url_options` plugin has been added which allows you to provide
  default options for file URLs.

# New features

* The `determine_mime_type` plugin can now accept IOs which are not files when
  used with the `:file` analyzer.

* Added `:host` option to `Storage::S3#initialize` for specifying CDNs.

* Added `:public` option to `Storage::S3#url` for returning an S3 URL stripped
  of credential query parameters

* The `direct_upload` plugin now accepts a block for the `:presign` option,
  which can be used to return additional presign options (passed directly to
  `Storage::S3#presign`):

```rb
plugin :direct_upload, presign: ->(request) do # yields a Roda request object
  {content_length_range: 0..(5*1024*1024)} # limit filesize to 5 MB
end
```

* Added the `(before|around|after)_upload` hook to the `hooks` plugin, which
  is wrapped around both processing and storing.

# Other improvements

* Fixed the `recache` plugin not working at all when used with an ORM plugin.

* Fixed the `logging` plugin not working with PORO models (which don't have an
  `#id`).

* The inspect output of `UploadedFile` is now cleaner and doesn't show
  duplicated info anymore.

* Cached files aren't automatically deleted anymore. This removes issues which
  can happen with background promoting when cached file is deleted while it's
  being promoted, and it also required a monkey patch for the `moving` plugin
  to not attempt to delete the cached file twice.

* Fixed a DoS vulnerability with background promoting where the job would get
  triggered each time the record is saved with the cached attachment, until
  the first job finishes.

* Fixed `migration_helpers` plugin to properly detect when attachment has
  changed while executing the block, and aborting the update in that case.

* Added the ability to use Postgres' JSON/JSONB columns for the attachment
  column when using Sequel.

* Fixed files with nested paths (generated either manually or using the
  `pretty_location` plugin) raising errors when trying to download them.

* Fixed downloading files not preserving the file extension.

* The `logging` plugin now logs for processing the number of *input* files
  instead of output.

* The gem should now work with Rubinius as well.

* Fixed `Storage::S3#multi_delete` and `Storage::S3#clear!` not using `:prefix`.

* Fixed the `keep_files` pluing requiring context for `Shrine#delete`.

* Improved Windows compatibility with the FileSystem storage.
