New features
============

* Added `:namespace` option to pretty_location plugin for including the model
  namespace into the location.

* Addded `:include_error` option to remote_url plugin which gives you access to
  the download error instance when generating the error message.

* Added `<attachment>_cached?` and `<attachment>_stored?` to migration_helpers
  for easier handling of uploading logic in ORM hooks:

```rb
class Photo < Sequel::Model
  def before_save
    if column_changed?(:image) && image_stored? # promote
      # ...
    end
    super
  end
end
```

Other improvements
==================

* Fixed uploading an S3 file making an additional unneeded GET request in
  addition to the S3 COPY request.

* When the model with an attachment is namespaced, the namespace isn't included
  in the location anymore when using the pretty_location plugin.

* Dumped Down version to 2.0.0 to fix downloading files from URLs which have
  "[]" characters in them.

* The IO is now rewinded even if FastImage fails to extract dimensions from the
  IO

* The IO is now rewinded when using MimeMagic to extract the MIME type.

* When uploading a `Shrine::UploadedFile`, the default location generator will
  first look for the extension in `#id` before looking at `#original_filename`.

* The remote_url plugin now returns separate error messsages when file wasn't
  found and when the file was too large.

* Fixed promoting raising an error if the record got deleted before
  promoting finished

* `UploadedFile#original_filename`, `#size` and `#content_type` now return `nil`
  when corresponding metadata keys are missing instead of raising a `KeyError`.

* Fixed errors being able to accumulate on the record object when errors occur
  in data_uri and remote_url plugins.

* The "metadata" key isn't required anymore when instantiating a
  `Shrine::UploadedFile`.

* The top-level key-values aren't cached anymore when instantiating a
  `Shrine::UploadedFile`, which means that `#id`, `#storage_key` and
  `#metadata` will now pick up any mutations on the data hash.

* Removed a deprecation warning in the S3 storage which occurs when AWS
  credentials are inferred implicitly.

* The extracted metadata is now accessible inside `Shrine#generate_location`
  via the `:metadata` key in the `context` hash.

* `Shrine#upload` doesn't mutate the given context hash anymore.

* `Shrine::Attacher#backup_file` from the backup plugin doesn't modify the
  input `UploadedFile` anymore.

Deprecations
============

* The keep_location plugin is deprecated, as the same behaviour can easily be
  achieved by overriding `Shrine#generate_location`:

```rb
class ImageUploader < Shrine
  def generate_location(io, context)
    if io.is_a?(UploadedFile) && context[:phase] == :store
      io.id
    else
      super
    end
  end
end
```
