New features
============

* Added delete_promoted plugin for deleting files that have been promoted, which
  applies to any cached files that have been uploaded to store.

* Added `:fallbacks` option to versions plugin, which allows specifying
  fallback URLs for versions which haven't finished processing yet.

```rb
class ImageUploader < Shrine
  plugin :versions, fallbacks: {:thumb_2x => :thumb, :large_2x => :large}
end
```
```rb
# ... (background job is working)

user.avatar_url(:thumb_2x) # returns :thumb URL until :thumb_2x becomes available
user.avatar_url(:large_2x) # returns :large URL until :large_2x becomes available
```

* Added ability to do custom backgrounding via `Attacher.dump` and
  `Attacher.load`.

```rb
class Record < Sequel::Model
  def after_commit
    if something_happened?
      data = Shrine::Attacher.dump(image_attacher)
      SomethingJob.perform_async(data)
    end
  end
end
```
```rb
class SomethingJob
  include Sidekiq::Worker
  def perform(data)
    attacher = Shrine::Attacher.load(data)
    # ...
  end
end
```

* Added `:presign_location` to direct_upload plugin for generating the location
  for presigned upload.

```rb
plugin :direct_upload, presign: true, presign_location: ->(r) { "${filename}" }
```

* Added `:filename` to data_uri for generating filenames based on content type
  of the data URI, in order for filename's extension to be automatically used
  in uploaded file's location.

```rb
plugin :data_uri, filename: ->(content_type) do
  extension = MIME::Types[content_type].first.preferred_extension
  "data_uri.#{extension}"
end
```

Other improvements
==================

* The download_endpoint now sets the `Content-Length` response header, if the
  size of the uploaded file is available (S3 now supports it).

* It's now possible to swap S3 storage with FileSystem when using presigns in
  direct_upload plugin, without changing any code, which is very useful in
  tests.

* The backup plugin now waits for the record to be saved with stored files
  before it starts uploading to backup storage.

* The logging plugin now logs both number of input and output files for
  processing.

* The migration_helpers now has a `:delegate` option, which when set to false
  doesn't add any additional methods to the model.

* In restore_cached_data plugin the cached file is now closed after the
  metadata has been extracted.

* `Attacher#promote` can now accept a phase, which makes it more generic and
  can now be used for securely reuploading stored files (no processing, aborts
  if attachment changes, old file is deleted with delete_promoted plugin),
  which is useful for moving to new location.

* The `:presign_options` now accepts a static hash in addition to a block.

* The direct_upload endpoint has now been refactored into methods, which means
  its now easier to override parts of its behaviour.

* The user-defined hooks will now happen outside logging, regardless of the
  load order of logging and hooks plugins.

* The parallelize plugin doesn't depend on the [thread] gem anymore, it now
  uses threads directly.

* Improved the storage linter; it now accounts for some subtleties which could
  potentially make some storages error, it fails fast, and it tests the content
  length in streaming.

* The `before_*` and `after_*` hooks now always happen around `around_*` hooks.

* The IO is now automatically rewinded when custom analyzer is used with
  determine_mime_type and store_dimensions plugins.

Bug fixes
=========

* Fixed logger not being inherited in the logging plugin.

* In validation_helpers plugin the dimensions validations now don't do anything
  when dimensions are missing from metadata (previously they were erroring).

* The keep_files plugin doesn't spawn delete background jobs anymore for files
  that are to be kept.

* Deleting backed up files now actually works with backgrounding plugin.

* Shrine now ignores validations when promoting, which means it will work when
  saving the record when it is invalid (but validations are skipped).

* S3 storage now properly encodes the URL when `:host` option is used, which
  would previously cause errors if location contained URL-unsafe characters.

* Eliminate a tiny chance of a race condition during promoting, which could
  happen with subsequent attachment updates on the same record when using the
  backgrounding plugin.

* S3 storage now uses an assigned SSL certificate when downloading.

Backwards compatibility
=======================

* The restore_cached plugin has been renamed to "restore_cached_data". The
  plugin will stop being loadable with the old name in Shrine 2.

* In direct_upload presign options are now accepted via `:presign_options`
  (instead of `:presign`). Accepting them via `:presign` will stop working in
  Shrine 2.

* The direct_upload's endpoint has now been changed from `/:storage/:name` to
  `/:storage/upload`. The old endpoint is still accessible and will stay in
  Shrine 2, but will be removed in Shrine 3.

* The `:delegate` option is now mandatory to pass for migration_helpers,
  until Shrine 2 where it will default to false.

* The delete_uploaded plugin has been renamed to "delete_raw". The plugin can
  still be loaded via "delete_uploaded", but this won't be possible anymore in
  Shrine 2.

* The moving plugin now deprecates "fake" moving, where in case the storage
  didn't support moving the file would be uploaded and deleted. In Shrine 2
  the file won't be deleted anymore (you can use the delete_raw plugin for
  this functionality).

* The `Shrine.versions!` and `Shrine.versions` methods have been removed, as
  they were part of internal API of versions plugin, but accidentally made
  public.

[thread]: https://github.com/meh/ruby-thread
