Backwards compatibility
=======================

* Metadata and upload options are now differently passed to storages, so the
  new signature of `#upload` and `#move` methods on the storage class should
  be:

```rb
def upload(io, id, shrine_metadata: {}, **upload_options)
  # ...
end

def move(io, id, shrine_metadata: {}, **upload_options)
  # ...
end
```

* The `Shrine::Confirm` functionality has been removed from storages'
  specification, storages should update `clear!` to remove the confirmation.

* The `:delegate` option in migration_helpers now defaults to false.

* The migration_helpers plugin has been deprecated, `Shrine::Attacher#cached?`
  and `Shrine::Attacher#stored?` have been moved to base functionality.

* The "background_helpers" alias for the backgrounding plugin has been
  deprecated and will be removed in Shrine 3.

* In backgrounding plugin the "attachment" key has been renamed to
  "name", and "uploaded_file" has been renamed to "attachment" in the data
  hash in background job argument.

* `Shrine::Attacher.promote` and `Shrine::Attacher.delete` from backgrounding
  plugin now return a `Shrine::Attacher` instance instead of the model
  instance.

* The moving plugin doesn't delete files that aren't movable anymore. You should
  use delete_raw and/or delete_promoted plugins for this functionality.

* The deprecated "delete_uploaded" alias for delete_raw plugin has been removed.

* The deprecated "restore_cached" alias for restore_cached_data plugin has been
  removed.

* The deprecated keep_location plugin has been removed.

* The deprecated `:subdirectory` option in FileSystem storage has been removed.

* The deprecated `Shrine#default_url` has been removed (specifying a default
  URL by overriding `#default_url` on the uploader), the default_url plugin
  should be used instead.

* The deprecated `Shrine.direct_endpoint` alias for `Shrine::UploadEndpoint`
  in direct_upload plugin has been removed.

* The `:presign` option in direct_upload plugin cannot be used for specifying
  presign options anymore; `:presign_options` should be used instead.

* `Shrine::Attacher#set` and `#assign` methods don't return the assigned
  uploaded file anymore.

* `Shrine::Attacher#delete!` doesn't spawn a background job anymore with
  backgrounding plugin, plugin writers should switch to `#_delete` instead.

* The phases when files are internally deleted have been renamed.

* Shrine doesn't officially support Rubinius anymore.

New plugins
===========

* The [shrine-reform] plugin has been released, which makes Shrine attachments
  work with [Reform] objects.

* The [shrine-mongoid] plugin has been released, which makes Shrine attachments
  work with [Mongoid] models.

New storages
============

* The [shrine-memory] storage has been released, which saves uploaded files
  in memory (useful in tests).

New features
============

* The built-in analyzers can now be used when implementing a custom MIME type
  analyzer in determine_mime_type plugin.

```rb
plugin :determine_mime_type, analyzer: ->(io, analyzers) do
  analyzers[:mimemagic].call(io) || analyzers[:file].call(io)
end
```

* The built-in analyzers can now be used when implementing a custom dimensions
  analyzer in store_dimensions plugin.

```rb
plugin :store_dimensions, analyzer: ->(io, analyzers) do
  dimensions = analyzers[:filemagic].call(io)
  dimensions || MiniMagick::Image.new(io).dimensions
end
```

* `Shrine::Attacher#cache!`, `#store!` and `#delete!` are now public (they are
  wrappers for `Shrine#upload` and `Shrine#delete` with context passed in).

* `Shrine::Attacher#_delete` has been added as a wrapper around `#delete!`,
  which the backgrounding plugin overrides and makes aynchronous. This nicely
  complements the `Shrine::Attacher#_promote` wrapper around `#promote`.

Other improvements
==================

* Shrine now prints a security warning when determine_mime_type plugin isn't
  loaded.

* Don't error in determine_mime_type with `:mimemagic` analyzer when MimeMagic
  cannot determine MIME of the file.

* When `:host` is given to S3 storage, URLs will now include the query
  parameters, unless `:public` is given, just like without `:host`.

* The Down version has been bumped to 2.2.0, which means the remote_url plugin
  now follows redirects (maximum of 2 redirects by default).

* The `Shrine::Attacher#_promote` and `Shrine::Attacher#promote` now have the
  same generalized method signature.

* The restore_cached_data plugin functionality won't get triggered anymore when
  form is submitted with already saved cached attachmnet (e.g. due to
  background processing).

* The restore_cached_data plugin now doesn't check anymore if the cached file
  exists (which saves an HTTP request with remote storages).

* The download_endpoint now makes only one HTTP request when downloading files
  from remote storages.

* The activerecord plugin now allows attachment modules to be included in
  non-ActiveRecord models.

* The sequel plugin now allows attachment modules to be included in
  non-Sequel models.

* Plugin options are now persisted when reapplying plugins.

```rb
Shrine.plugin :download_endpoint, storages: [:store], prefix: "/downloads", disposition: "inline"

class DocumentUploader < Shrine
  # all other options above will be persisted
  plugin :download_endpoint, disposition: "attachment"
end
```

* The `:include_error` has been removed from remote_url plugin, the error will
  now be included in the second argument depending on lambda's arity.

* The dynamic_storage plugin doesn't cache the instantiated storages anymore,
  which enables use cases like storing storage definitions in the database.

* The determine_mime_type plugin with `:file` analyzer now handles filenames
  that start with a dash ("-").

* `Shrine::Attacher` now allocates less strings.

[shrine-reform]: https://github.com/janko-m/shrine-reform
[Reform]: https://github.com/apotonick/reform
[shrine-mongoid]: https://github.com/janko-m/shrine-mongoid
[Mongoid]: https://github.com/mongodb/mongoid
