Improvements
============

* The versions plugin doesn't require the `:names` option anymore.

* The restore_cached_data plugin will now download only a small portion of the
  file needed for extracting metadata (after which it will terminate the
  connection). Previously the whole file was always downloaded. To get this
  you need to update your storage gem.

* When enforcing that the input is an IO-like object Shrine doesn't check
  method arity anymore, only if the object responds to that method. This means
  that Shrine now properly works with objects like `Rack::Test::UploadedFile`,
  which use `#method_missing` to delegate to the underlying object.

* Fixed a load order bug with parallelize and logging plugins, where loading
  them in this order would make the thread pool join *outside* of the logging
  block, making the logs show an instantaneous duration instead of the actual
  duration.

* The `file` command from the determine_mime_type plugin is now executed in the
  same way for files as for other IO objects.

* Increase the amount of bytes read from the IO in determine_mime_type when
  using `:file` or `:filemagic` analyzers, which might make the recognize some
  MIME types that they haven't before.

Backwards compatibility
=======================

* Generating versions in `:cache` phase is now deprecated, for better security.

* The `#cached_<attachment>_data=` method that comes from the
  cached_attachment_data plugin is now deprecated. The reason for this is that
  the following "recommended" usage actually produces bugs when image is
  invalid:

```rb
form_for @photo do |f|
  f.hidden_field :cached_image_data
  f.file_filed :image
end
```

  The recommended and correct way now to build forms is by keeping the
  `#<attachment>=` setter:

```rb
form_for @photo do |f|
  f.hidden_field :image, value: @photo.cached_image_data
  f.file_filed :image
end
```

* The restore_cached_data now sends the `Shrine::UploadedFile` to
  `#extract_metadata`, instead of the result of `Storage#open`.

* Storages which use `#stream` should switch to `Down.open` for remote files, or
  the generic `Down::ChunkedIO` in other cases.
