## New features

* The `:mini_magick` analyzer has been added to the `store_dimensions` plugin,
  which uses the [MiniMagick] gem to extract image dimensions.

* The `:ruby_vips` analyzer has been added to the `store_dimensions` plugin,
  which uses the [ruby-vips] gem to extract image dimensions.

* The `:fastimage` analyzer has been added to the `determine_mime_type` plugin,
  which uses the [FastImage] gem to determine the MIME type of the file.

* `Shrine::UploadedFile#download` now accepts a block for downloading an
  uploaded file temporarily. This is useful when wanting to validate whether an
  uploaded image is valid or corrupted, or when generating thumbnails.

```rb
uploaded_file.download do |tempfile|
  # ...
end # tempfile is deleted
```

## Other improvements

* It's not required that IO objects respond to `#size` anymore. This is
  useful when uploading streams of data where the size is not known.

* The S3 storage now supports IO objects with unknown size. Under the hood it
  will use multipart upload.

* The logger is now properly inherited and shared between `Shrine` subclasses.

* The attachment URL generated by `download_endpoint` now stays the same
  regardless of the order of elements in the metadata hash. Previously it could
  change after the uploaded file data is loaded from the database, because the
  order of the metadata hash elements would change, which is not desirable for
  caching.

## Backwards compatibility

* The `:rack_mime` extension inferrer has been removed from the
  `infer_extension` plugin, due to not having acceptable behaviour. The new
  default extension inferrer is `:mime_types`.

* The `:heroku` formatter in the `logging` plugin has been soft-renamed to
  `:logfmt`. The `:heroku` alias will stop being supported in Shrine 3.

* The `Shrine::IO_METHODS` constant has been depreacted, and will become
  private in Shrine 3.

[MiniMagick]: https://github.com/minimagick/minimagick
[ruby-vips]: https://github.com/jcupitt/ruby-vips
[FastImage]: https://github.com/sdsykes/fastimage
