## New plugins

* The processing plugin has been added for declaratively defining processing
  for a specific action, and is now the idiomatic way to define processing in
  Shrine:

```rb
class MyUploader < Shrine
  plugin :processing

  process(:store) do |io, context|
    # ...
  end
end
```

* The add_metadata plugin has been added for simpler extraction and addition of
  new metadata:

```rb
class ImageUploader < Shrine
  plugin :add_metadata

  add_metadata :exif do |io, context|
    MiniMagick::Image.new(io.path).exif
  end
end
```
```rb
uploaded_file.metadata["exif"]
# or
uploaded_file.exif
```

## Other features

* The `UploadedFile#open` method has been added to mimic `File.open`, which
  opens the underlying IO only for the duration of the block:

```rb
uploaded_file.open do |io|
  # ...
end # closes the IO
```

* Add `:multipart_threshold` to `Storage::S3` for specifying the filesize in
  bytes for when the storage should use aws-sdk's parallelized multipart
  upload/copy. Defaults to 15MB.

## Other improvements

* Aws-sdk's parallelized multipart S3 upload/copy is now automatically used for
  files larger than 15MB. Previously multipart upload was never used, while
  multipart copy would only be used for files larger than 5GB.

* In `Storage::S3#download` aws-sdk's downloading is now used, which retries on
  failed downloads.

* A `:content_length` option is now passed to multipart S3 copy request, which
  avoids an additional HEAD request.

* The backgrounding plugin doesn't require anymore that the model has the
  attachment module included. Previously it relied on the
  `<attachment>_attacher` method.

* The restore_cached_data plugin previously still downloaded the whole file,
  once the opened IO was closed. This has been fixed in the Down gem.

* The determine_mime_type plugin now raises an error if the `file` command
  is not installed or failed.

* If delete_raw plugin was loaded after moving plugin, it could cause
  `Errno::ENOENT` errors. This is now fixed.

* The direct_upload endpoint now always includes both `POST /:storage/upload`
  and `GET /:storage/presign` routes, and `:presign` option is now obsolete.

* Add `:callbacks` and `:validations` options to sequel and activerecord
  plugins for disabling callbacks and validations.

## Storage changes

* The `UploadedFile#download` will now use `#open` in case `Storage#download`
  isn't implemented, which means that storage implementers don't need to
  implement this method anymore.

* The `Storage#read` method isn't used in the data_uri plugin anymore, which
  means storage implementers don't need to implement this method anymore.

* The `Storage#clear!` method has been made optional in the storage linter,
  since it was just a convention and isn't actually used by Shrine.

## Backwards compatibility

* The `:phase` context variable has been softly renamed to `:action`. At the
  moment both variables are passed to `context`, so referencing `:phase` will
  still continue to work normally, but in Shrine 3 accessing `:phase` will
  trigger a deprecation warning, and in Shrine 4 it will no longer work.
