## New plugins

* The `copy` plugin has been added for copying files from one record to
  another. Duplicating the model instance will automatically create a copy
  of the attachment.

```rb
Shrine.plugin :copy
```
```rb
photo = Photo.find(photo_id)
duplicated_photo = photo.dup # duplicates the attachment

photo.image != duplicated_photo.image
```
```rb
photo.image_attacher.copy(other_photo.image_attacher)
```

## New Features

* The `:directory_permissions` option has been added to `Storage::FileSystem`
  for specifying UNIX permissions of all directories inside the main directory.

## Other improvements

* Directory permissions are now applied to aoll subdirectories inside the main
  directory

* The default UNIX permissions are now 0644 for files and 0755 for directories.
  Previously it relied on defaults of the operating system.

* The `backgrounding` plugin doesn't require the model instance to have the
  `#id=` writer method anymore.

* The `Attacher#read` method for returning the value of the underlying column
  is now public.

* The `Attacher#context` can now be mutated for an instantiated Attacher object.

* Fixed `Attacher#swap` method being private after loading `sequel` or
  `activerecord` plugin.

* The `recache` plugin behaviour has been extracted into `Attacher#recache`, so
  that it can be used standalone.

* The `moving` plugin now works correctly with `backup` plugin.

* The `direct_upload` plugin now prevents the client from caching the presign
  response, by returning `Cache-Control: no-store` header.

## Regressions

* The previous version introduced a regression in `sequel` plugin where if a
  record is updated while the background job is working, promoting the
  attachment would override that change. This is now fixed, only the attachment
  attribute will now be updated.
